Designer wins admirers in New Zealand

As the sun dipped below the skyline, the Auckland Art Gallery sparkled with the presence of celebrities and dignitaries, who came to celebrate the exquisite symphony of art, fashion and heritage, as the Chinese couturier Guo Pei unveiled her exhibition Fashion, Art, Fantasy.

The six-month exhibition, from Dec 9, will showcase over 60 striking garments from Guo's two-decade-long career, inviting New Zealanders to immerse themselves in the grandeur of her art couture.

The opening ceremony commenced with the soul-stirring resonance of a Maori Karanga, a ceremonial call of welcome to the artist and her family, followed by traditional blessings and songs.

The exclusive exhibition not only displays Guo's representative masterpiece, the Yellow Queen gown and outfits never seen before in any other gallery or museum, but also features a series of unique public events, including an interview with the artist, the Chinese New Year Festival and a fashion fantasy ball.

"It is a privilege to present the magnificent work of Guo Pei to New Zealand, for the very first time," says Kirsten Lacy, director of the Auckland Art Gallery.

Describing Guo's creations as more than fashion, she coined the term "art couture" to capture the essence of the exhibition.

Guo said in her speech that she wishes to share her love and inspiration in her work with the New Zealand audience.

"Art transcends all the boundaries we impose. I aspire for my work to convey integrity, to transmit love, and to embody my civilization, along with the culture that flows in my veins," the artist said.

"In reality, culture and art know no borders; they belong not only to a single nation or ethnicity but to all of humanity. A country's museum represents the culture and refinement of its people," she noted.

"Much of my learning has been derived from museums, (which) I am delighted to present, in the most beautiful manner, within this art gallery and share with everyone, inspiring and uplifting all."

Guo herself also engaged in an exchange by introducing her work to the audience, offering insights into the inspiration behind each creation.

The Chinese Ambassador to New Zealand Wang Xiaolong said in his speech, "What makes Ms Guo Pei so unique is the ability to combine what is traditional, what is modern and contemporary and even futuristic. Her art combines what is East and what is West. The products are amazing beauty filled with global art.

"I think the exhibition will help to open a window with unique looking glass through which, hopefully, more New Zealanders can get to know China better, a country that is increasingly resonating with the rest of the world but, at the same time, keeps its roots firmly and deeply in its time and traditions," Wang said.

Exhibition attendees, including the Minister for Arts, Culture and Heritage, Paul Goldsmith, and Auckland Mayor Wayne Brown, showed their genuine fondness for the craftsmanship and elegance manifested in Guo's haute couture.

Gordon Bayne, CEO of a local media company, commented on the exhibition's uniqueness: "Truly magnificent! New Zealanders love fashion, and we celebrate artistry. It's very much welcome for Kiwis to see this amazing exhibition."

Appreciating the handmade silk embroidery haute couture, business owner Liz Scott and her husband Glen from Waiheke Island acknowledged the dedication put into the dresses.

Siblings Alex and Michael Jones, who resided in Beijing for several years, spoke about their deep connection to Chinese culture and how they take inspiration from Guo's work. The pair said that they miss Beijing a lot, noting that Guo's work is truly inspiring to the young generation.

Phoebe Watt, an editor from FashioNZ, took photos of what was on view.

She characterizes the exhibition as unparalleled in Australasia. "This is the best fashion exhibition ever. The Yellow Queen is a mustsee. But I also fell in love with other collections such as the Legend of Dragon, the L'Architecture, and the Legends," she said.

Adding to the chorus of voices, Sharon Lacy, a lawyer and a dedicated art enthusiast who flew in from Australia, attested to the dramatic power of Guo's work. "The exhibition showcases different series, making it a powerful blend of Eastern and Western histories and cultures," she said.

Born in Beijing, Guo is a world-renowned couturier known for her opulent and intricately detailed creations. With a career spanning more than two decades, Guo has been a trailblazer in the fashion world, pushing boundaries and redefining the concept of haute couture.