



   Actor Zhang Songwen, a star of 
  The Knockout, speaks at the 2023 iQIYI Scream Night where the drama is crowned as the Best Drama of the Year on Nov 25, 2023. [Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn] 
 

iQIYI, China's equivalent to Netflix, held its annual iQIYI Scream Night on Saturday at the Galaxy Arena in Macao. It awarded 52 honors across various categories to recognize premium content and outstanding artists that have helped engage diverse audiences globally.
In the drama category, fan favorites such as Road Home and Bright Eyes in the Dark, both presented by the entertainment giant, earned the honor of Drama of the Year for their powerful storytelling. iQIYI-produced Why Try to Change Me Now took home Mini Series of the Year. At the same time, the epic historical drama Destined scooped Long Series of the Year. The smashing hit Story of Kunning Palace was recognized as the Most Popular Drama of the Year for its strong audience connection.
The Big Band 3, produced by iQIYI, claimed the Stage Presentation of the Year title in the variety show category. Meanwhile, The Rap of China 2023 was celebrated as the Most Popular Variety Show.
In the film category, three films, including The Comeback, presented by iQIYI, were recognized as Cloud Cinema's Influential Film of the Year, and five films, including iQIYI-presented Trending Topic, were recognized as Highly Anticipated Film of the Year.
Gong Yu, founder and CEO of iQIYI, presented these awards with renowned directors Li Shaohong and Zheng Xiaolong.
These categories underscored the company's ongoing commitment to developing innovative and engaging content that resonates with a new generation of viewers, according to Gong.



   Four original dramas — 
  The Knockout,  
  Destined,  
  Mysterious Lotus Casebook, and 
  Story of Kunning Palace, win recognition at the 2023 iQIYI Scream Night on Nov 25, 2023. [Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn] 
 

In 2023, four exceptional iQIYI original dramas— The Knockout, Destined, Mysterious Lotus Casebook, and Story of Kunning Palace — have all exceeded 10,000 on the platform's content popularity index, gaining special honors and bringing the total number of inductees to ten.
This event also marked a new strategic partnership between iQIYI and Galaxy Arena, a new landmark of culture and entertainment in Macao. Under the agreement, iQIYI Scream Night will be held at the Galaxy Arena for three consecutive years starting this year.
The two partners will leverage their strengths and resources to collaborate actively across various shows, dramas, immersive virtual reality (VR) experiences, and large-scale entertainment events. 
Further underlining this collaboration, the VR project based on iQIYI's hit drama, Love Between Fairy and Devil, will launch at the venue in 2024.



   The 2023 iQIYI Scream Night is held in Macao on Nov 25, 2023. [Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn] 
 

