Rediscovering Dunhuang: a micro-documentary journey


Dunhuang, located in Northwest China's Gansu province, was an important stop on the ancient Silk Road, with profound history and rich culture. What does Dunhuang look like today?

From Dec 5 to 8, the micro-variety show titled "The Dunhuang You Don't Know", was released on social media platforms including the Twitter-like Weibo and Douyin, the Chinese version of TikTok. Since its premiere, the video series has garnered millions of views online.

The show, produced by the art program center of the China Media Group, focused on the modern way of life in Dunhuang, showcasing the inheritance and development of traditional Chinese culture. The program revolved around eight dimensions, including local cuisine, creative cultural products, folk heritage and the guochao, which means "native wave", and the use of traditional Chinese elements in fashion.

Dunhuang is renowned for its numerous natural and cultural heritages. From the renowned Mogao Grottoes - a UNESCO World Heritage Site boasting rich collections of Buddhist artwork - to the Crescent Spring, a crescent-shaped lake surrounded by giant sand dunes, Chinese people are familiar with Dunhuang's magnificent beauty. Yet, the micro series takes the audience on a journey to discover the uncovered, vivid and vibrant modern lives of Dunhuang.

One episode titled "Resume" guided viewers through the Mogao Grottoes and related exhibitions, providing insights into the historical and cultural significance behind the exquisite murals. In another episode, the audience were taken to the vibrant Dunhuang night market to savor local delicacies such as iron plate fish and hand-grabbed lamb.

In recent years, with the rise in popularity of the guochao trends, contemporary artists have transformed Dunhuang's age-old art into creative cultural products that resonate with young consumers. In this video series, the distinctive Dunhuang aesthetics have also captured people's attention through cosmetics, fashion and trendy collectibles.
