



   Chinese delegation receive awards at the World Champion Final of the Sport Movies and TV 2023 — 40th Milano International FICTS Fest officially concluded on Saturday in Milan, Italy. [Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn] 
 

The World Champion Final of the Sport Movies and TV 2023 — 40th Milano International FICTS Fest officially concluded on Saturday in Milan, Italy.
During the event's award ceremony, Chinese films — Beijing 2022, Me and My Winter Games, Ping Pong: The Triumph, Crazy Chinese Country Football, One Fan Wants to See Himself Running, and Twinkling Eyes on the Ice — received recognition and awards.
These works were selected and submitted by the Beijing International Sports Film Week to participate in the festival.
Founded in 1982 by the Federation International Cinema Television Sportifs, the festival has played a significant role in promoting the development of sports film and television culture worldwide. Over the years, its global significance has continued to grow, with an increasing number of participating countries and submitted entries, making it one of the most internationally renowned sports film festivals.
This year's event has attracted participation from more than 120 countries and regions, with over 1,000 entries from around the world competing in the global final.
To better share the stories of the sports development in China, this year, Gao Yunchao, deputy director of the Beijing Olympic City Development Promotion Center, led a delegation to Milan to attend the festival's world champion final. During the event, they organized a meet-and-greet with the audience for the film Me and My Winter Games and presented a screening of the official film of the Beijing Winter Olympics, Beijing 2022. These activities received a warm welcome from the local audience, especially the youth.
Additionally, a thematic exhibition titled Dual Olympics City was held. Using excellent movie-themed posters from the 19th Beijing International Sports Film Week, the exhibition showcased the exciting stories of Chinese sports cinema.
